## You have to make familiar with core concepts to get strong core to start from.

#### Keywords

Some have functionality added, but some does not have functionality associated to them but reserved for functionality that might be added in future.

## Variable and Mutability

#### Immutable - Why?

By default all variables are immutable and not for global scope.

To make it mutable have to add **mut**

Benefit / Mut is not constant

- Explicitly - It clearly convey the intent whether that value can be change down the line in program or not.

**Error does not mean u are bad programmer, but they really mean ur program is not safely doing what u intended to do.**

### Overshadowing

- Rust allow to re-declare immutable varibale, and create new one on stack every time thats how it shadow the previous one.

- As every time new varibale is being created on stack, type of variable can be change but allow to re-use the same name.
- Ca re-declare the

###### Proof of work

- Below is the example program to show that every time we re-declare the same name varibale, it is allocated new location on memory.

```rust
fn main() {
    let w = 10;
    println!("{:p}", &w);
    let w = 20;
    println!("{:p}", &w);
    let w = 30;
    println!("{:p}", &w);
    let w = "Abdus Samad";
    println!("{:p}", &w);
}

$Output:

0x7ffca0e1eb7c
0x7ffca0e1ebcc
0x7ffca0e1ec1c
0x7ffca0e1ec1d
```

- Can even change the data type of variable.

```rust
fn main() {
    let w = 10;
    println!("{}", w);
    let w = "Abdus Samad";
    println!("{}", w)
}
```

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut w = 10;
    println!("{}", w);
    let w = "Abdus Samad"; // Throw error
    println!("{}", w)
}
```

### Constant

- Always immutable
- Uppercase
- Can be declared in any scope, global, local etc
- Type have to annotate explicitly.
- Can assigned either hardcode value, or result of constant expression, can not assign value evaluated at runtime.

Benefits

- Provide single place to make any change to the variable.

## Data Type

### Static type

As Rust is static type language means Rust must know the type of all variables used/declared in program at the time of compilation.

#### Two ways to assing data type

1. Implicit - Either compiler infer from the value at compile time.
2. Explicit - Or if can not, have to explictly define the type, such as when converting string to integer example

```rust
let guess: u32 = "42".parse().expect("Not a number!");
// if remove will throw an error
```
